---
description: >-
  PoLN's architecture employs smart contracts on Ethereum-compatible networks,
  ensuring decentralized operation, wide interoperability, and potent business
  dynamics.
cover: .gitbook/assets/architecture.png
coverY: 55
layout:
  cover:
    visible: true
    size: hero
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# ⛏ (WIP) Architecture Overview

With a design that's scalable, flexible, and robust, PoLN's architecture stands prepared to redefine the paradigms of decentralized systems.

## Multi-Blockchain Compatibility

PoLN isn't bound to a single Ethereum chain but thrives on the interoperability offered by Ethereum-compatible platforms.

By leveraging these platforms, PoLN's smart contracts can be deployed across various networks, ensuring flexibility and a broader reach.

## On-Chain Dynamics

The heart of PoLN lies in its smart contracts.

These on-chain scripts, developed in Solidity, function as self-executing contracts where the terms directly written into code lines.

Before making their mark on the mainnet, these contracts undergo thorough testing on testnets, ensuring they're error-free and optimized for performance and security.

## Off-Chain Prowess

Our off-chain components, developed in GoLang, serve as bridges between the on-chain data and the users.

These RESTful APIs not only ensure swift data retrieval and manipulation but also seamlessly integrate with the smart contracts, offering a harmonious blend of speed and security.

The use of Docker/Kubernetes clusters for deployment signifies PoLN's commitment to a hyper-scalable architecture, ready to handle surges in demand.

## User Interaction & Frontend

The frontend, crafted in Angular, serves as the user's gateway to PoLN's protocol.

It's designed with user experience at the forefront, ensuring smooth interactions.

Integration with wallets like MetaMask and Coinbase becomes seamless, courtesy of the ethers.js library, facilitating easy and secure transactions.

## Seamless Deployment & DevOps

In the rapidly evolving world of tech, continuous deployment is not just an advantage but a necessity.

GitHub and GitHub Actions synergize to ensure our services, be it frontend or REST API, always run the latest, most optimized versions.

Cloud platforms like Heroku and AWS further enhance the system's accessibility, ensuring high availability and performance.

## Open Source – A Commitment

PoLN believes in the collective strength of the developer community.

By making the entire codebase accessible on fairhive-lab’s GitHub, PoLN invites collective innovation, feedback, and enhancements, all while ensuring transparency.

***

{% hint style="success" %}
The architectural foundation of PoLN is meticulously crafted, intertwining technology with vision.

Each architectural decision echoes one or more of its ten core objectives:

1. **Forge a Supportive Community**: The architecture is deeply rooted in collaboration. The open-source nature of the protocol, with all its code hosted on fairhive-lab’s GitHub, ensures an environment where the community can actively engage, contribute, and have a sense of collective ownership.
2. **Foster Inclusivity and Accessibility**: PoLN prioritizes universal accessibility by supporting multiple Ethereum-compatible chains, ensuring diverse user inclusion. This design democratizes access, inviting participants from various blockchain environments. The result is an enhanced user base and enriched community interactions.
3. **Empower Labor**: The decision to decentralize backend services and embrace smart contracts ensures that every contributor's work is transparently recognized, validating individual roles and empowering labor.
4. **Facilitate Equitable Wealth Distribution**: Structured public and private sales strategies have been designed to prevent undue concentration of tokens, making certain that the distribution of $POLN is broad and equitable. Developers and other contributors are essential pillars of the ecosystem. Recognizing their invaluable input, the architecture also emphasizes rewarding their efforts, ensuring they partake in the wealth generated by the platform.
5. **Promote Ethical Transactions**: PoLN's architecture underscores transparent, immutable transactions, ensuring every action is traceable and accountable. Contributors receiving payment in PoLN enjoy visible compensation, solidifying their track record within the ecosystem. This transparency not only promotes ethical behavior but also strengthens professional credibility.
6. **Implement Secure and Rapid Crypto-Payments**: PoLN streamlines swift and secure crypto-payment processes for contributors, offering an optimal experience for those transitioning into the web3/crypto realm. Utilizing robust blockchain networks ensures contributors receive prompt settlements, solidifying trust and encouraging more professionals to engage in the decentralized web.
7. **Enhance Stakeholder Participation**: PoLN's smart contracts enable open access, encouraging partnerships and innovative integrations. Projects/Companies can harness these contracts to build novel use-cases atop the PoLN protocol. This design fosters broader stakeholder participation and collaborative ecosystem expansion.
8. **Community-Driven Protocol Development**: The community stands at the forefront of the protocol's evolution. The open and modular nature of the architecture ensures that PoLN continually adapts based on collective decisions.
9. **Drive Innovation and Modernization**: PoLN harnesses the power of Angular and ethers.js for its initial interface, while also exploring advancements with the innovative Svelte framework. Through modern event streaming like Kafka, the protocol ensures timely and efficient data management. Ongoing enhancements and innovations are managed via platforms like GitHub, positioning PoLN at the pinnacle of technological progression.
10. **Strengthen Trust and Reliability**: PoLN prioritizes transparency by keeping its code source public and open, inviting scrutiny and collaboration. By adopting an agnostic target through DevOps practices, PoLN ensures adaptability across various platforms, fostering continuous integration and seamless deployments. Reliable services such as Heroku and AWS further bolster the infrastructure's robustness. Together, these elements solidify the trustworthiness and reliability of the PoLN ecosystem.
{% endhint %}
